Lord of Fend

By Scrowe
simon_crowe@excite.com

Players: 1 human, 7 computer
Size: X-Large
Special Victory Condition: Find the Helm of Heavenly Enlightenment
Special Loss Condition: Lose Gratsnak the Battle Mage

Special other: Although I could not make it an actual game mechanic there should be another special loss condition which is 'lose Mystra the knight' If you do lose Mystra the game becomes impossible, as you shall see.

Background:

Fend - a land of chaos and war. The various factions, once united under the leadership of the mighty warrior Scorblade, have reverted back to their own lands and sealed themselves away from each other.
Not a particularly good place to be then? Well you see it differently...
To you it is a land of opportunity. If the races were to combine their forces and share the resources that the lands are so rich under. If Fend were united its armies would be invincible.
Of course if you were their leader that would be all the better...
And there is perhaps one way of becoming this warlord of your dreams, it is said whoever wears the Helm of Heavenly Enlightenment controls all of Fend. Of course this is just a legend...
Then you hear of another warrior, Mystra, searching for the Helm herself. You send a message to her asking for an alliance. She replies she will help, but she is in trouble, on the run from the overlords.
You must act quickly, disguising yourself as the Battle Mage Gratsnak you infiltrate the southern most part of eastern Fend. And now..?
Time to get going..


Notes:

This is a 'sequel' to my much enjoyed 'Sleeper' level. If you liked that one you should love this too, although I've tried to add variety to kepp them different.
My biggest pity is that you cant set up two or more loss conditions, because I really wanted a loss if you lose Gratsnak or Mystra. Well if you lose Mystra you cant complete the game anyway, so be wary.
The land of Fend is full of events and secrets, not all of them important. However it is important to know that a pen and paper would come in handy, there are a few things that are important to take note of. You'll know what when you find them.
UOF is packed with events and I apologise for any spelling mistakes, it's very hard to spot them all.

If you find any problems or bugs please e-mail simon_crowe@excite.com

Enjoy!






+++GAMEPLAY HELP+++

+++SPOILER WARNING+++

Stuck? Well here are a few pointers, don't read if you don't want to spoil the game! I've arranged them in a sort of order so if you just read one it may give you a clue, if your still stuck read the next one for a clue and so on...

+++SPOLIER WARNING+++


Q. How do I defeat the overlord with Mystra?
A. You dont! Run away.




Q. But he's faster than me...
A. Try thinking of a way of making yourself go faster.




Q. Ummm... come on tell me!
A. Alright then, get rid of all your troops except the Champion, remember the faster the slower creature you own is, the more squares you can move. And yes it does make you weak, but it doesn't matter.




Q. Two Dragons vs. a Champion!
A. No no no. You need more troops.




Q. I've got some troops from the barracks, but there's cavaliers in the training grounds/ monks in the monastry.
A. There's a hill fort north, and every week you get more troops. The point here is to wait for a few weeks and slowly build up till you're ready to face the dragons. Don't rush in!




Q. Blue's better than me...
A. Wait, build up, dont go through that border guard until you know you are strong enough.

Well that's all the problems I envisage people may have. But if there are any more you can e-mail simon_crowe@excite.com.








