Heroes III Map Information File

Map Name:       Cave of Gerfrex V1.4 (Cave of Gerfrex.h3m)
Map Maker:      Timothy Pulver
E-Mail Address: fnord@telus.net

Map Type:       Single Player: 1 Human Only, 3 Computer Only
Map Size:       Small, 2 levels
Map Difficulty: Normal
Language:       English
Version:        Shadow of Death 3.2 + WoG Addon


Description:    The Necromancer Zarachodar has his undead legions poised to attack. You have 
                just three months to find and defeat him before the time of the Dark Sun 
                arrives and all is lost!

                In this exciting ERM story map, you'll have the opportunity to make real 
                decisions that affect the course of the game.

Special Win:    Defeat the hero Zarachodar the Necromancer.
Normal Win:     Disabled
Special Loss:   Three month time limit. Fail to win by Month 3, week 4, Day 7.

Special Other:  Read the Map Tips section below. They aren't spoilers.


Map Tips:       1. In some instances your hero may acquire artifacts through ERM events.
                   These artifacts will be placed in your backpack instead of equipped.
                   To be safe, always check after you've been told that you've received 
                   an artifact to see where it has been placed. A good rule to follow is 
                   that if you don't see a picture of the artifact in the message that
                   gives it to you, it's probably in your backpack.

                2. If your hero (Lydorie) retreats, you can rehire her in the tavern. If she
                   loses in a battle, she will reappear in the tavern on day 1 of the 
                   following week. There's a minor bug that sometimes occurs where her 
                   picture won't show up in the tavern but I think her name will. In such
                   an instance you can still click on her (empty) picture and rehire her.

                3. Check the tavern regularly. There are a few rumours that might provide
                   some rather helpful hints if you catch them. :-)


Spoilers:       None. But if you have major problems and need a tip, you can send me email 
                at: fnord@telus.net.


Map-Testers:    Bruno......................onurb666@ifrance.com
                Gaidal Cain................gaidal.cain@softHome.net
                Keith Williams.............keith.williams@virgin.net
                Simon Mooncalf.............pauljmoedt@wxs.nl
                Slaim Master...............slaim666@hotmail.com
                Slava Salnikov.............zvs@mail.lanck.net

                This map has been a rather different and unique experience in Heroes mapmaking.
                It's the first map I've created using the ERM scripting language created by
                the talented Slava Salnikov for use with Heroes of Might & Magic III (SoD).
                This map (for the most part) is a story-oriented single-hero map. As a story
                map I tried to avoid some of the usual problems of a fairly linear map design
                by including alternate story "paths" depending on the options chosen by the
                player along the way. But in the end you must still face that ultimate evil, 
                Zarachodar the necromancer, so be careful how you choose...

                Many thanks to the playtesters who all did a wonderful job of testing and 
                suggesting (and re-testing too). :-)

                And thanks to Simon Mooncalf, Keith Williams and Gaidal Cain also for their 
                eagerness and enthusiasm.

                And special thanks to Keith Williams for his meticulous grammar and
                spell-checking. That's always a tedious job but one that Keith does quite
                cheerfully and thoroughly too!

