
Map name: Malagorn the Saviour

Players: 1H, 5C

Size: XL, two level map

Map maker: Jan Stephan Pontzen

Scenario description: Are you, Malagorn the saviour, descendant of the famous elfish king Elevorn, able to regain control of the once so powerful kingdom of Elevor and to free the  miners, enslaved by the evil lord Christian, that once belonged to your kingdom?

Feel free to send any comments to jan_stephan@pontzen.de

map testers: 
	Madmax (maxipriest@freenet.de)
	Daniel 
	Jan Stephan Pontzen (jan_stephan@pontzen.de)
	     

visit my (German) web site for more (multiplayer) maps: www.pontzen.de 

This map is 100 % real. 

Choose expert to play.




SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!!

SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!!

SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!!

SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!!

SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!! SPOILER INFORMATION WARNING !!!








As you may have noticed, the map is divided in several parts:

Part I: the test
no hints here - that's why it's called test :)
On day 14 or 15, a sendant of the undead should arrive, but this battle should be winnable

Part II: the tunnel
DO NOT ENTER THE TUNNEL UNTIL THE BEGINNING OF WEEK 3. You need to pick up all units at day 1 of the 3rd week. Then you are strong enough to defeat the Gr.Basilisks and all orc and undead ambushes!

Enter every tunnel! You'll get all +5 artifacts, 15% more magical resistance, and +25% on archery!

Don't forget to step left to the magic well!


Part III: Elevor
You should have captured the following towns on the following day at last (!!!)
Galdor      : day 34
Madant      : day 40
Nador       : day 46
Candar      : day 52
Ufretin City: day 60
If you do so, you will get all towns upgraded, creature dwellings included. If you don't get the dwellings it will be very hard for you to win this map!!!

Hidden passages: for succeeding against Lord Christian, you desperately need to flag the dwellings!

Bandits: 5* on the road + creature dwelling ambushes. To conquer Nador, Candar, and Ufretin City you have to visit the blue keymaster's tent 1st!!! That means for you: after conquering Madant, you have to defeat Galf the rogue 1st! After the message short before Candar there won't be any more bandits!

DO NOT ENTER ARAGORNIA UNTIL YOU HAVE FREED ELEVOR!!! (all creature dwellings, all mines in the underground(, all peasants!))


Part III: Aragornia
The green keymaster's tent is in Aragornia, so you have to go there! There are two possibilities to get to the green keymasters tent:
1.) defeat Tower, then get to the tent
2.) go through the passage! Yes, there seem to be dead ends and there are hard guards, but there are boats and underground passages that will help you to get to the tent.
Both are fine... the 2nd way is shorter -> more points, but you won't gain that much experience. It's your choice...


Part IV: on the ocean
Build a ship at the shipyard in the south, Malagorn should sail westward to...

free Robinson! He is a decent scout for the ocean who can collect all those flotsams, sea chests, and visit the ships. DON'T TAKE HIS CREATURES AWAY TO GIVE THEM TO MALAGORN! Take Robinson to collect all things in the water between Elevor, Aragornia, and Elba. Also, you should send him to the gold mine islands of the swamplord which lay right between the  western part of Elevor and Moorwood Forest and right next to the great wall. Furthermore, he should move southwestward since there is an outpost of some Elevorian people who fled there. 
Malagorn should conquer the two hostile dragon cliffs west of Robinson's island which will be of great help against lord Christian and, depending on whether he chooses the roughlands or the swamplands, take the outpost or the dwelling islands... 

You have to decide whether you want to get to the humans by the subterrenean gate in the swampland territory or by the one in the roughlands.

Conquer the Necromancers' land !!! You will find out where the grail lies - there's no need to explain the need of it, I think... +2 luck for all heroes is fine, revealing the whole map spoils the balance.


Part V a): the swamplands (Moorwood Forest)
Ambushes: there are lots of them, but you should get through them...

Pandoras' boxes: you need both the key for the green and the purple guards! The effort is worth it since you will find some friendly troops there.

The purple tent: to get the key, you must find a rust dragon! You'll find it north of the capitol of Moorwood Forest. To gain entry to the land of the humans, you must have the purple key!!!

The subterrenean gate lies in the southwestern corner of the map, green + purple tent required for access! Besides, are you ready to kill zounds of (Mighty) Gorgons???

Passage to the humans:
To kill all those legions of Castle soldiers you apparently need a strong army... same thing with the dungeon creatures later on!!!


Part V b): the roughlands (Morgor)
Before you enter it (entrance at the southern coast of Morgor), you should take over control of the two dwelling islands (close to Morgor's coast) since that will make it easier for you to defeat the orcs!

Two possibilities to get through Morgor:
To gain entrance to the mining territory, you have to visit the black keymaster's tent!!!
1.)just walk in the northern corner of the kingdom and ignore the enemy towns except of the last one in the north. Capture this one, town portal home, get new armies, move up further. I don't recommend to do this: Morgor is full of mines (esp. gold)! I'd rather prefer 
2.)conquer all towns, kill Bog. Doing this, you'll rise up some levels which will be of great help for the final battle against Lord Christian.

the northern desert: after the nomads, you'll face a large sum of (Ancient) Behemoths! Be prepared for this huge amount of HPs! Before you enter the gate, pick up the money and the pandora's box in the hidden passage, you'll need all that!

Passage to the humans:
To kill all those legions of Castle soldiers you apparently need a strong army... same thing with the dungeon creatures later on!!!

Mining territory:
a) Dungeon: find the tent, defeat all guardians, free the dwarves. Conquer all towns, you may find Sacrifice in one of them...
b) Castle: the only entrance from where you can gain entry to the human islands is the one in the far southeast. It is guarded by 500 Champions on cursed ground (!!!), ready to defeat 50k HPs? If you are not, you shouldn't even try to enter the land of the humans because you couldn't defeat Christian anyway. There'll be huge sums of dwarves to free - so your biggest stack before the big battle against Christian will be the dwarves!

Human islands:
Christian will have TP and WW! Nevertheless, you should try to capture as many human towns as possible without fighting against him. With some luck he might be forced to besiege you what would definitely give you a major advantage. This will be a very hard fight! By the beginning of week 3, he might have twice as many soldiers as you! Your advantage, that is that he won't have ressurection. You will...

Overall, this map is sometimes hard to play, especially the fights against the enemy main heroes... I hope you had fun playing it!