
Map Name:	Mirror Universe (mirror_u.h3m)
Map Maker:	Matthew Smith
E-Mail Address:	Smith666@cwcom.net

Map Type:	Multiplayer  (8 Humans Or Computer players)
Language:	English

Description:    Eight player free-for-all in a mirrored universe.
	 
Special Win:	NONE
Special Loss:	NONE
Special Other:	NONE (co-op version also available) 

Narrative:	For no particular reason the subterranean layer is an EXACT
		copy (or it should be anyway) of the surface layer...so you
		best go kill everyone.

Play-Testers:	Michael J. Kaspar (mikekaspar@mediaone.net)
		Stuart Mogford (rudeboy@smogford.freeserve.co.uk)
              	
Other info:	The knight (castle) and dungeon players might have an advantage as all of the map 
		is either grass or subterrian, so they'll always get a native terrain bonus.
		Other than that I've tried to keep it fairly well balanced, but not
		overly so - I can't be doing with making every single base area
		exactly the same (i.e. same number of squares to each mine for 
		each person, nothing random etc.) as that only has an benefical
		effect when you have 8 human players of exactly same skill, which
		will never happen anyway, and just makes the map dull in all other
		cases. 

		Deemer, Aislinn, Solmyr (and for the purposes of symmetry - Loynis)
		have been placed in prisons.  An idea burrowed from the maps Land of Sword Scepter
		and Phoenix's Nest both by Panga Keo (hapkane@cnmnetwork.com). Beginning
		with meaty shower or chain lightning is too much of an advantage, so
		if you want the heroes you have to go and rescue them - they aren't
		guarded to extravagantly (a stack of 15 random level 7 critters)
		but by the time you get them things should of evened out a little, and in
		terms of experience and stats you should have better heroes.

		In terms of your own personal use of the map feel free to make whatever
		adjustments you think will help, i.e. random artifacts can be a little
		imbalancing if you get the Sea captains hat and your neighbour the heavenly
		helm, but as there is no way of picking which artifacts the random artifact
		won't be (i.e. removing the chance of getting boat skill artifacts on a map
		with little or no water) I decided it better to just keep it random, than to
		just give everyone the same.

		Although the lower layer is drawn as grass when you enter combat it will always
		be subterrian (therefore the warlock on the lower level has quite an advantage)
		I was quite annoyed when I discovered this, but know no way of changing it.

		There aren't really any hints or tips for this map...its pretty simple.

		If you have any comments feel free to contact me.

