	This is to be read *AFTER* completing the map, not before... unless you like spoiling the entire story for yourself before you begin!  :)


	After constructing a statue of your Spirit Guardian out of the Grail which you rescued from the clutches of your father, you step back, clapping your hands together to rid them of the dust which clings to them.  Slowly, you feel the air around you begin to heat up.  You sit down next to your Spirit Guardian and prepare to die...

	Faces, voices, memories of the past... all will soon be gone.  Your mother's face appears, smiling, in your mind, for the first and last time.  "I love you more than you will ever know, Jack," she tells you as you feel the first flames begin to lick at your feet.  "I wish you a quick and painless death, so that we will meet in the afterlife soon..."  Her image fades, leaving you to be burned.

	Then you are confronted by the shapes of the Directors of the first seven floors of the complex.  "Jack!" they cry.  "What are you doing to us?  What are you doing to BLI!?  Why is this happening!!..."  Their voices trail off... and you watch them all burn...

	Next comes a visit from your fiancée.  "I'm proud of you, Jack," Renée tells you.  "I know that I wouldn't have been able to survive as long as I did if it hadn't been for you, and I was happy to have helped you on your final test as a researcher at Boragus Labs Incorporated.  I am also happy to report that your mother is with me now, although I can't see any trace of your father anywhere."  She seems perplexed.  "Well..." you begin, although you're not sure how or where to begin.  "After I killed him, he was apparently disintegrated by the evil powers held in the Grail.  Then, when I made my way towards the boat so I could go home, he contacted me, telling me that I hadn't really killed him.  He told me that I had to....... to die..."  You break off, sobbing, as the full weight of the situation finally comes down upon your shoulders.  You feel your fiancée's warm, loving arms of fire envelope you as you lay down to perish...

	*crackle crackle*

	*sizzle sizzle*

	Whew... what's that smell?  Looking down, you see the bodies of you and the army that faithfully followed you to the end, only to be incinerated.  Hey, wait a minute!  Down?  Glancing at yourself, you see that you are nothing but a spirit now.  You feel a slight pressure on your shoulder, and turning to see what it is, you see your mother and fiancée standing behind you.  "Glad I could finally see you," your mother says, smiling.  "You look so much like your father..."  She wipes her eyes.  "I'm so sorry you had to die to save yourself from him, but..."  Your fiancée interrupts her.  "Sorry, but your husband is not yet dead," she proclaims.  "Jack, I've got a message here for you from your father," she says.  Taking the scroll from her hands, you begin to read...



	My son, if this message has reached you, you are already dead and your soul is being transferred to the afterlife.  I hope that my actions have not placed too great a burden on you...  A short time ago, I was paid a visit by the spirit of your mother.  At first I was frightened by her countenance, and I thought she was you, come to kill me before my task was complete, but soon I learned better.  She had only come to counsel me of future events in my life and what I had to do to finish the task, so that I could be transported to another dimension where many people need my assistance.  She instructed me to place a spell on the Grail, so that when some person dug it up and made something from it, it would destroy the only real home I have ever known.  This task was very hard to accept at first, but as time passed, I became mad with power, drawn in by the snares of the Grail.  So, I enchanted the thing and locked it, and me, away in my office until my "death" could be attained.  Then I led you along, first helping you to invent the Elixir of Life, and then assisting you through my complex, so you could reach me and stifle my madness for a time.  And you did... and I'm very proud of you, Jack.  Then you managed to kill me, which I attempted to make as easy as possible, reducing the ability of my advisors to combat you in an attempt to make sure you would reach me as quickly as possible, and retaining only the bare minimum of troops that they would allow me to keep in my sanctum.  As I lay on the ground, life slipping away from me, I could feel the powers I had been ensnared by in the Grail come to life.  They began to attempt to take my soul away from me.  Tapping into the magical energies which had been collected in that instrument of doom, I wove a teleportation spell of a magnitude never before seen in this world.  I say "in this world", because I had been, in recent times, contacted by magical pilgrims from another world entirely.  These pilgrims had sent their souls to search for one who could save their race, and they found me.  They then taught me how to retain my soul after death, and use my last breath to push myself towards their dimension.  I... I am now there, if you are reading this, and I have begun my quest to save these people from their own ultimate doom.  ... I'm terribly sorry that you had to destroy yourself and all that you loved, but it was the only way...

	My son, after you have read this message and fully comprehended it, I know that I can trust you to aid me in my newest quest.  I shall write the secrets of this teleportation spell, slightly altered to account for the lack of a final breath with which to push your soul to me.



	A strange writing follows the text of the message, at the very bottom of the scroll.  As you look at it, it appears to change shape, and suddenly you are able to understand it.  You realize that it is the incantation that will begin transporting your soul to Boragus' new dimension... although what's this?  A note under the incantation :

	You must find a living body in which to place your soul, or your transportation will be incomplete.  I have met with a young man here named Sandman, who has volunteered to become your host.  Beware, for when you enter his body, you will lose all knowledge of your former self... but I shall do my best to assist you when you arrive.  Take care, son...

	A strange rune that looks like a "B" is scrawled at the very bottom of the page.  Taking a final deep breath, you glance once more over the incantation, and begin to chant...