
                   MAP SUBMISSION
-------------------------------------------------------------
Map Name:   One of Each    (One of Each Version 1.32.h3m)
  DOS Name:   ONEOFE~1.H3M
  zip:        1ofeach.zip
Map Makers: Timothy Pulver (Fnord), David Page (Gageteer)
  E-Mail Addresses: fnord@kingston.net, gageteer@hotmail.com

Map Type: HoMM 3
Version: Version 3.2 (The Shadow of Death expansion)
    - 1v1 (duel)
  Size: Medium (2-level)
  Difficulty: Normal
  Language:   English

Player Positions:
  blue:  Human
  green: Human
			
Special Win/ Loss: None

Suggested Playing Difficulty: Hard (or higher)
(see Important note below regarding resources)
-------------------------------------------------------------

IMPORTANT:        Due to a bug in the game and the setup of the map, it is impossible for the 
                  guest player to select a starting hero and bonus *unless* you are playing a
                  hotseat game. Because of this, the host player should NOT select a starting
                  hero or bonus either--both players should select ONLY their town type and
                  leave hero and bonus random.

                  (Starting hero will actually appear as "None" to the guest player on the
                   advanced options screen, but will appear as selectable to the host player.)


Narrative:        Lady Celaine has hired you to determine which creatures make the best army 
                  and which skills are best taught to the leaders. As one of two generals, you 
                  will put together a force of your choosing below ground and then battle it 
                  out against your counterpart amidst the surface maze of desert mountains.

Overview:         Rather than recruiting troops in the normal fashion, players will have the
                  opportunity to flag their choice of one external dwelling of each level. All 
                  non-neutral dwellings (and a few neutral ones) are available, and are arranged 
                  in groups near the starting towns. Also, rather than starting with a few 
                  skills and gaining the rest in semi-random fashion, all heroes will be able to
                  select all 8 of their starting skills at basic level by visiting witch huts.

                  NOTE: If you have any troubles figuring out what to do at the start of the 
                        map, be sure to scroll down and read the section on "Getting Started".
                        (Or you can read it over before playing if you prefer.)

Computer Player:  This map is geared for two human players. Although the AI CAN play one side,
                  it rarely makes intelligent decisions and is certain to construct an inferior
                  army. If you decide to play against the computer anyway, it is recommended
                  that you set the difficulty to Impossible and let the computer play Green (it
                  appears to have a slightly easier time with the Green starting area layout).
                  The difficulty rating still won't help the AI much but it's better than 
                  nothing.

Getting Started:  Artifact "keys" will be used to gain access to the dwellings chosen. Players
                  begin with the key to a single level one dwelling. After selecting a level 
                  one dwelling, a single level two dwelling key can be claimed and a level two 
                  dwelling chosen. The key to each level of dwellings is located near that 
                  dwelling group. If a player flags all dwellings possible, he or she will end
                  up with eight dwellings in total; one each of levels one through seven, and
                  a single powerful neutral dragon dwelling. Note that flagging dwellings
                  beyond level four requires fighting the dwelling guards, so it's likely that
                  some delays may occur while building up a sufficient army in the first few 
                  weeks. Hill forts are located nearby.

                  The start of this map can be a bit confusing. There are text events and 
                  other messages giving prompts, but it may still require some clarifications.
                  1. Each of the first few groups of dwellings has a front and back "door".
                     These doors are quest gates. The front doors require an artifact (that
                     you'll find nearby) and the back doors require locksmiths (peasants) that
                     you will also be lurking nearby (they will join you). To reach the back 
                     door, you must go *through* the dwelling that you've chosen.
                     NOTE: Do NOT attack nor dismiss the peasants or you will be stuck!

                  2. For various reasons there is a time limit on the back door quest gates. 
                     You will see a message about having to return in x days. This simply means 
                     that you have a limited time to open the quest gate with the peasants.

                  3. You will have only one hero initially available to move with. After you 
                     have flagged the first few dwellings you will be able to release the other 
                     heroes from their confinement. Once released, the other 7 heroes can get 
                     their starting skills from witch huts and/or explore and help gather 
                     creatures.

                  4. The higher level dwellings (level 5 and up, plus the Golem Factory) have 
                     guards that must be defeated before you can flag them. You may still select
                     the dwellings you wish to eventually take by visiting the appropriate quest
                     guard.

                  5. Aside from resource silos, do not be overly concerned with building town
                     structures in the first week (though you may build if you wish--it's up
                     to you). For more details, see the section later on in this text file.

                  6. Due to the unorthodox setup of this map and controlling 8 heroes by week 2,
                     game play is likely to be initially slower than normal. Do not be 
                     discouraged by the slow start--the pace should pick up by month 2.



Detailed Play Notes:

                 Dungeon Towns and Starting Town:

                  Each player starts the game with three Dungeon towns and one other town of
                  their choosing, excluding Dungeon. All towns are limited in what they can 
                  build as follows:
                  a) all creature dwellings are disabled;
                  b) as a result of this, any dwelling requiring a creature dwelling cannot be
                     built either;
                  c) the Dungeon town Mage Guilds provide all level 1 spells (5 per guild) but
                     no higher level guilds can be built. The starting town you select will 
                     also have a level one Mage Guild but with no spells--it is there to allow 
                     for spell point regeneration and for the building of certain special town 
                     structures that require a Mage Guild such as the Tower's Wall of Knowledge;
                  d) Dungeon towns cannot improve their halls beyond the starting Village Hall, 
                     however, the player-selected town will automatically have higher levels
                     of hall built over the course of the first 2 months of play (up to Capitol);
                  e) Shipyards cannot be built as there is no water near the towns and not too
                     much on the map as a whole;
                  f) each Dungeon town comes with a prebuilt Portal of Summoning. To get 
                     maximum benefit from the Portal, you may wish to avoid checking it until 
                     the end of the week, after you have flagged as many dwellings as possible.
                     This will give a chance of higher level troops appearing in the portal.

                  Note: see the sections on Starting Town Selection and Town Development below 
                        for further information and tips.


                 Starting Town Selection:

                  a) Castle cannot build Stables due to the Barracks requirement and cannot
                     build Brotherhood of the Sword due to the Tavern requirement. The 
                     Blacksmith is mostly redundant since the Dungeon towns can build the same
                     type (ballistas). Aside from the Resource Silo (wood & ore), there's little 
                     reason to select Castle unless you want Castle heroes or hope to build the 
                     Grail there;
                  b) Dungeon *cannot* be selected, but you start with three Dungeon towns. All
                     special Dungeon buildings can be built. Dungeons start with their Portal of
                     Summoning prebuilt. Hint: in the first week, wait to check the portals
                     until after you've flagged a level four (or higher) dwelling, as this
                     will increase your chance of some good extra troops early on;
                  c) Fortress can build all its special buildings. The Blacksmith (first aid 
                     tent), Cage of Warlords (+1 defense), and Resource Silo (wood & ore) may 
                     make it a reasonable choice;
                  d) Inferno can build all its special buildings. The Blacksmith (ammo cart)
                     and Order of Fire (+1 power) may make it useful if you hope to use magic
                     and/or shooters much. Also, the Resource Silo produces mercury;
                  e) Necropolis can build all its special buildings *except* the Skeleton
                     Transformer due to the Cursed Temple requirement. If you plan on taking
                     Necromancy skill, the Amplifier could be useful. The Cover of Darkness is
                     always handy for hiding your base of operations, but beware if your
                     opponent chooses Tower, since the Lookout Tower (if built) will mostly
                     counteract the Cover of Darkness. The Resource Silo produces wood & ore;
                  f) Rampart can build all its special buildings *except* the Treasury due 
                     to the Miner's Guild requirement. The Mystic Pond could be useful if 
                     bought early and the Blacksmith produces first aid tents. The Resource
                     Silo produces crystal, making this a good choice if you plan on flagging
                     the green dragon dwelling or the behemoth dwelling as your level seven 
                     creature selection;
                  g) Stronghold can build all its special dwellings, but without Taverns on 
                     the map, the Escape Tunnel is useless. The Hall of Valhalla (+1 attack),
                     Blacksmith (ammo carts), and Resource Silo (wood & ore) could make this a 
                     reasonable choice, and heroes who advance quickly in attack skill aren't 
                     bad either;
                  h) Tower can build all its special dwellings, but without spells in Mage 
                     Guilds, the Library is useless, and the the Artifact Merchant is 
                     redundant since the Dungeons can build them too. However, the Blacksmith 
                     (ammo carts), Wall of Knowledge (+1 knowledge), Lookout Tower (see into 
                     enemy's starting area), and Resource Silo (produces gems), all make Tower 
                     quite a good choice of starting town;
                  i) Conflux can build all its special buildings, but the Artifact Merchant and
                     Blacksmith are redundant, and the Magic University is useless since all
                     magic skills can be learned for free from the witch huts. Aside from the
                     heroes and Resource Silo (produces mercury), Conflux probably isn't a 
                     great idea on this map *unless* you manage to find and build the Grail 
                     there (which will give you incredible power but will NOT be easy). Aside
                     from the Grail gamble, Conflux isn't a great option. And if you plan to 
                     flag a firebird dwelling and believe you'll need the mercury, Inferno is 
                     probably still the better choice for this map.


                 Town Development:

                  Because there are no dwellings that can be built in any of your towns, and 
                  because you cannot upgrade your hall (though it will be done through timed
                  events anyway--see below), it is not necessary to build structures every day 
                  in the first two weeks (and in fact, you probably won't have enough initial 
                  resources to keep building for long anyway).

                  The most important structures to build are probably your Resource Silos, 
                  especially if you have one that produces wood and ore, as this will allow
                  you to construct other town structures sooner. Most of the other structures
                  will not matter when you build them, as long as you build a few before your 
                  main heroes venture forth (such as the Battle Scholar Academies, a Blacksmith,
                  and a Mana Vortex).


                 Timed Hall Development:

                  Month 1, Week 1, Day 1: Village Hall
                  Month 1, Week 2, Day 1: Town Hall
                  Month 2, Week 1, Day 1: City Hall
                  Month 2, Week 3, Day 1: Capitol


                 Heroes:

                  Each player begins the game with eight random heroes of the type matching 
                  their chosen town type. Seven of these random heroes will initially be 
                  confined to a "pen" but can be released by the eighth hero in the first week
                  of play. The following information should be noted about these heroes:
                  a) there are no taverns on the map, so these heroes must last the game and
                     can neither retreat nor surrender without being lost;
                  b) all starting heroes (both might and magic) begin with spell books;
                  c) starting heroes do NOT begin with any spells, even if they have a spell 
                     specialty;
                  d) starting heroes do NOT begin with war machines, regardless of specialties;
                  e) all starting heroes begin with artifacts that boost their morale to +4 and
                     their luck to +1 -- this allows for some mixing of troops types, though 
                     leadership skill is still required for an army with 7 different factions,
                     or with six factions including undead;
                  f) heroes begin with no skills, but all skills are available in the starting 
                     area in the form of witch huts. Each group of huts is sign-posted and icons
                     (usually artifacts) are behind most huts to help identify them. For easy
                     reference, a listing of the witch hut groupings is below.


                 Skill Notes:

                  a) magic is somewhat harder to come by above level 1--most higher level spells 
                     on the map are available only in the form of scrolls, however, there are a 
                     few sites that teach spells, such as shrines and pyramids, as well as the 
                     occasional scholar. On the other hand, almost ALL spells are available in 
                     the form of scrolls (at least one of each, two of each for many of the 
                     most useful ones), so it may still be wise to give heroes magic skills;
                  b) navigation isn't too useful on this map since there is only a small amount
                     water--probably not enough to justify using a skill slot;
                  c) diplomacy may or may not prove useful. Most monsters will be either hostile 
                     or savage;
                  d) scholar skill may also not prove too useful, unless you happen upon a 
                     really good spell at one of the shrines;
                  e) any hero can choose any skill, so you don't have to be a necromancer to 
                     take necromancy and necromancers can take leadership.


                 Witch Hut Groupings:

                  Collections
                     Scouting, Estates, Learning, Diplomacy, Necromancy
                  Magic
                     Sorcery, Intelligence, Eagle Eye, Mysticism, Scholar, Wisdom
                     Air Magic, Earth Magic, Fire Magic, Water Magic
                  Movement
                     Logistics, Pathfinding, Navigation
                  Might (non-enhanceable)
                     Luck, Leadership, Tactics
                  Might (enhanceable)
                     Armorer, Resistance, Archery, Offense
                  War Machines
                     Artillery, Ballistics, First Aid


                  Hint 1: after one hero has all eight skills selected, have him or her visit 
                          the rest of of the unvisited huts, so that right-clicking will show 
                          the skill taught there.

                  Hint 2: you may wish to build the Battle Scholar academy in the Dungeon towns
                          to give each of your heroes some starting experience. If you do so, 
                          make sure to have them choose skills *before* entering a town with
                          an academy built. That way, you'll avoid wasting a level-up acquiring 
                          a basic skill level in something.
                          
                  Hint 3: skill selection for 8 heroes can be quite time consuming when done 
                          all at once. It may save considerable time if you make a list of
                          skills that each of your 8 heroes will probably choose. You can always
                          adjust this during the game but it will serve as a good starting point.
                          You may even benefit from making a couple of extra lists, since the
                          skills of might heroes will likely differ  from those taken by magic
                          heroes and you may not wind up with a 50/50 split.


Mapmaking Notes:  This section explains why things were done the way they were done in this
                  map. It is not crucial information and should only be read if you're curious
                  why certain things are limited and others are done a specific way.

                  1. No Taverns. If Taverns were included they would introduce additional
                  troop types (a hero's starting troops) into a player's army. In order to
                  keep the armies limited to your 8 selections (plus a few Nomads and possible
                  use of Diplomacy skill later in the game), Taverns have been omitted.

                  2. Timed Hall Development Only. Without Taverns, it's impossible to upgrade
                  a hall the normal way. Starting with a Capitol would provide too much gold 
                  initially. The timed Hall building provides a gradual increase in income.

                  3. Forced Flagging of Initial Dwellings (levels 1-3). Due to the Portals of
                  Summoning in the Dungeon towns (which provide a nice boost to your army ranks
                  while introducing a small random element), it was necessary for balance
                  purposes to force each player to flag dwellings of the first three levels. 
                  Although a 4th level dwelling could be skipped, it makes no sense to do so.
                  And it's impossible to force flagging of the dwellings above 4th level, due
                  to the option to fight or not fight the built-in guards.

                  If players were allowed to skip dwellings of level 1 through 3 and only flag
                  the higher level dwellings, the guaranteed extra higher level troops from the 
                  portals would yield a more powerful army than one with lower level dwellings 
                  also flagged. This has been tested. As the purpose of the map is to have 
                  players choose the best creature from each of the 7 levels (plus optionally,
                  one powerful dragon), the initial setup was necessary.

                  4. Peasants (Locksmiths) who Open Back Doors of Initial Dwellings. In order 
                  to guide starting heroes through the flagging of the first three levels of 
                  dwellings, the front door/back door concept was necessary. The decreasing 
                  number of peasants makes it impossible to get through a second back door of 
                  a previous level. The time limit on the back doors prevents randomly recruited
                  peasants (wandering or "month of the") from being used to gain access to 
                  another level 1-3 dwelling later in the game.

                  5. No Dungeon Town for Starting Town. Dungeon towns can build Portals of 
                  Summoning. Given the restrictions on creature dwellings, troops are at a 
                  premium. If a Dungeon town was allowed as your chosen starting town, it
                  would always be the best town to choose because of the extra Portal. In the
                  map editor there is no way to disable a Portal of Summoning on a random town.

                  6. No Starting Spells for Heroes. Several Heroes begin with high level spells
                  such as Chain Lightning, Meteor Shower and Resurrection. Due to the open skill 
                  selection (and easy building of three Battle Scholar Acadedies), it would be a 
                  little too easy for a Hero to gain Advanced Wisdom and Expert Scholar. This 
                  would be sufficient to give ALL your heroes those high level spells and would 
                  make a few town types (primarily Tower and Necropolis), the only ones worth
                  taking. It would also partially invalidate one of the unique aspects of the
                  map--limited access to most high-level spells.



Map-Testers:	  

                  Yvette..................yvette@axion.net
                  Julia Skipper...........angelshome@ns.sympatico.ca
                  Qurqirish Dragon........QurqirishD@aol.com
                  Joseph Tom..............joedragons@softhome.net
                  Rachel Butt.............rbutt@pcug.org.au
                  Andrew Stern............diabolus_accendo@hotmail.com
                  MegaDeath...............titansareus@home.com
                  The Dark Archangel......tonip_yu@yahoo.com
                  Sargetul Iulian.........sargetul@xmail.com
