The Legacy of Qun-Jin (Episode II:  The Sword of Peace)

Map Name:	The Legacy of Qun-Jin II (Legacy_of_Qun-Jin_2.h3m)
Map Maker:	Dan Heath
E-Mail Address:	pope@uclink4.berkeley.edu

Map Type:	Singleplayer, 1 Human Only, 4 Computer Only
Language:	English
Map Size:	Large, 2 Levels

Description:	Episode II:  The Sword of Peace
In response to a series of unprovoked raids on Queen Amara's underground holdings, Britomart and Wei (the heroes of the Restoration War) have undertaken an operation to permanently pacify the human tribes responsible for the attacks. 

Special Win:	NONE
Special Loss:	NONE
Special Other:	NONE

Explanatory Note:Since we don't have access to the campaign generator (I hear tell there's one w/the new expansion, but I haven't got my hands on it yet), I couldn't import your heroes from the previous map.  Instead, I have arranged to give them lots of experience right from the start.  Just move them; you'll see what I mean.

Design Notes:	Response to the first map in this series was very positive, so I decided to make a sequel.  This map has the same no-gimmicks theme to it; don't spend hours sailing around the dark corners of the underground sea because I didn't hide (there or anywhere) a secret cache of dragon generators.  What you see is what you get.  The map's design is substantially different, however.  With the last map, there was only one way to proceed: reconquer all your towns then start whacking the orcs. With this map, you can proceed with your objectives in very different ways.  You'll see what I mean when you start the map.

Play-Testers:	Stefan "Satan´s Puppet" Bjelkfelt, S.Bjelkfelt@hem.utfors.se
		Jeff Davis (Shademantis), ruj@email.msn.com 
 	        Al Mytko, dexterholland99@hotmail.com  
		Jagan, jagan@powersurfr.com 

----------------------------------------------

Please see the Legacy of Qun-Jin web site at http://www.sapros.com/maps/index.html for news, updates, and information about the other maps in this campaign.

----------------------------------------------

Episode II:  The Sword of Peace

The Great War of Restoration is over.  The territories conquered by your father, Qun-Jin, have been restored to your control, and your enemies have been utterly crushed.  The surviving raiders have signed oaths of fealty, and in their ruined castles you have installed governors loyal only to yourself.  The once-fearsome armies which threatened your kingdom have been brought under your command, and now scour the remote reaches of the swamps and mountains, destroying the last traces of opposition to your reign.

You have not forgotten, however, the lessons of your sister Corinna's downfall.  Peace is, in many ways, more difficult to wage than war, and already old rivalries are beginning to resurface among your underlings.  You are faced with the dual difficulty of maintaining order among the fractious petty leaders of your own nation, and keeping the resentful population of your newly-conquered territories from revolting against your rule.  The task will require all your attention.

To complicate matters, your recently acquired territories on the underground sea have, in recent weeks, been subject to a steadily increasing number of mysterious raids.  Large contingents of humans, arriving (for reasons that are far from clear) with non-combatants in tow, have landed on remote beaches, established primitive settlements, and made several incursions into your subterranean territory.  Each occasion required the diversion of substantial forces from other duties, and though the invaders were crushed with relative ease, the attacks were highly inconvenient.

It is of the utmost importance that you have the freedom both to deploy your troops for internal security, and to divert funds from military operations to the restoration of vital infrastructure.  It is imperative, therefore, that the incursions be stopped before they become more serious.  

To this end, you are sending your two most trusted commanders, Wei and Britomart, to seek out the perpetrators of the attacks and teach them the errors of their ways.  To do so will not be easy: you can ill-spare a large army for the expedition, and in any case public opinion would balk at the deployment of Elvish troops so far from the homeland.  Your commanders have assured you, however, that, with a modest expeditionary force, they can establish a foothold within enemy territory, and, if the enemy does not comply peaceably, use the resources they find there to humble your foes.

You have dispatched a team of scouts to set up a forward base and perform reconnaissance work; tomorrow, Britomart and Wei sail, carrying your banner to foreign shores.  They assure you that their victory will be quick and decisive.


--------------------------------------------


Acknowledgements: This map probably wouldn't exist if it weren't for the dedication of the playtesters--their responses to my first map encouraged me to do a sequel, and their testing efforts have ensured that both maps are balanced and free of errors.  If thanks are due to them, then thanks are also due to the astralwizard's site (www.astralwizard.com) which hooked me up with them in the first place.

--------------------------------------------

**what follows is an icky copyright notice

Copyright Notice:  All text, original character names, and story is copyrighted by Dan Heath, 1999, and may not be reproduced without my permission.  I hereby grant permission for this document and these maps to be freely distributed, provided that 1) they are not modified in any way and 2) this document is included with them and 3) they are distributed free of charge.  These maps may not be packaged for sale without my express permission.  Heroes of Might and Magic is copyrighted by New World Computing, 1996.  