The Legacy of Qun-Jin Episode III:  The Threshold of Kur-Hazeth

Map Name:	The Legacy of Qun-Jin III (Legacy_of_Qun-Jin_3.h3m)
Map Maker:	Dan Heath
E-Mail Address:	danh@sapros.com

Map Type:	Singleplayer, 1 Human Only, 4 Computer Only
Language:	English
Map Size:	Large, 2 Levels  (only 1 level accessible to player)

Description:	Episode III:  The Threshold of Kur-Hazeth
You are launching a suicidal attack on the homeland of the devils.  You must survive for four weeks in order to create a sufficient diversion for your sister general, Wei, to free Queen Amara and liberate her kingdom. 

Special Win:	Four weeks elapse (the game thinks it's an accumulate X resources win--you'll see what I mean)
Special Loss:	Lose Hero (Britomart)
Special Other:	NONE

Designer's Notes:
0.  Stylistically, this map is a major departure from the previous two.  It's nowhere near as hard, for one thing, and the focus is much more on story and exploration.  The conclusion is foregone:  Britomart will not escape the underworld (she knew that when she undertook the mission).  There's still fighting, of course (it's not always easy to be the diversion), but if you only like hard-hitting, eye-gouging all-fight-all-the-time maps, this one will probably bore you.  Wait for Episode IV; I'll be back to the eye-gouging in that one.

1.  Since we don't have access to the campaign generator (I hear tell there's one w/the new expansion, but I haven't got my hands on it yet), I couldn't import Britomart from the previous map.  Instead, I have arranged to give her lots of experience right from the start.  Just move her; you'll see what I mean.

2.  The opening scene, where you get to pick your army, isn't actually part of the map; think of it as a prologue.  That scene represents the process of selection which went on before Britomart left the territory she and Wei captured in Episode II; you'll notice the armies represented are all the armies that would be available on the Episode II map.  Why aren't they all that big?  The real reason is game balance, but the made-up story reason is that Britomart and Wei had to leave most of the army behind to keep control over the newly conquered territories.

3.  The underworld is deliberately weird, so don't worry that I've got hydras where there shouldn't be hydras, etc.  It's deliberately weird, but not deliberately broken; if it seems like something isn't working, let me know.  Also, there's more there than you need to explore, and there are some things that you don't get to mess with in this episode (like, for instance, the gate to Kur-Hazeth proper).

Play-Testers:	Jagan (jagan@powersurfr.com)
		Yung (raven@mars.ark.com)
		Florian Trombach (trombacf@uni-bremen.de)
		Stanislav Sokolov (Stanislav.Sokolov@uibk.ac.at)
		Stefan Bjelkfelt (S.Bjelkfelt@hem.utfors.se)
		zgod zgod (zenithgod@hotmail.com)

Web site:
Please see the Legacy of Qun-Jin web site at http://www.sapros.com/maps/index.html for news, updates, and information about the other maps in this campaign.

----------------------------------------------

Episode III:  The Threshold of Kur-Hazeth
The present:

Britomart and Wei have heard nothing from Queen Amara for weeks. None of the many messengers they have sent home have returned. They fear the worst, and have temporarily anchored their fleet off a small chain of islands several miles from the coast of Queen Amara's underground territories. They are preparing, if necessary, to make landfall in the face of a hostile army. They await news from their spies before proceeding.

The past:

During the climactic weeks of their struggle against the necromancers, Britomart and Wei began to receive disturbing letters. They learned that the Lord Mayor of Hare March declared himself the true heir to the throne of Qun-Jin, advancing his claim through a complicated chain of descent from Qun-Jin's grandfather. His revolt was unsuccessful, but Amara was forced to repress it with violence, and the Mayor and several of his closest supporters were publicly executed. 

More alarming, however, were later letters from Lady Xiu, Amara's chief of intelligence. Lady Xiu wrote that her spies were detecting several new confederacies of petty lords, each seeking to capitalize on the instability of the realm to assert long-dormant claims to sovereignty. Isolated rebellions can be suppressed, but large conspiracies, as Britomart and Wei well knew, are the makings of civil wars.

Disgusted at her countrymen, Wei urged a speedy return with a mighty army. She argued for a determined suppression of the rebels and a clear display of force to prevent future incidents. Britomart, however, argued that they must complete their mission, rather than leave a war half-won. To return prematurely, Britomart warned, would be to ensure the collapse of their new territories, and would virtually ensure a speedy counterattack from their bloodied, but not defeated, enemies. Wei grudgingly assented, acknowledging Britomart's greater experience and larger familiarity with political affairs. Redoubling their efforts, the two strove to secure the extermination of the necromancers as quickly as possible. 

Meanwhile, as letters from Xiu informed them, the situation at home deteriorated. Despite Amara's judicious handling of her nobles, rumors of conspiracy continued. Then, Xiu reported, at exactly the wrong moment, Queen Amara's field army, marching back to Madake to impose the peace, was ambushed and badly beaten by a force of rebellious orcs and ogres. 

Xiu's final letter warned that one of her spies had received word that some of the lords were considering allying themselves with outside powers to overthrow Queen Amara. Xiu had not heard from the spy in several days and feared that he had been detected-she did not know from whence the external threat might come, but the spy's disappearance seemed further proof that something was seriously amiss. The letter urged the generals' speedy return, and warned them that, if they heard no further news, they should bring an army and approach with caution. They might, the letter hinted, find the necessity of invading, once again, their own country.

As soon as Britomart and Wei completed the pacification of their new territory, they established a regional command under some of their most trusted lieutenants, and turned their thoughts and preparations toward home. Gathering what troops could be spared from the administration of the new territories, the generals prepared a fleet and set sail.

Having heard nothing for several weeks, they cast anchor at the Choamnom Islands, several miles off the coast of the underground territories they had captured in the Great War of Restoration. They sent their best spies to shore, and waited. Wei wanted to land at once, but again, Britomart urged caution, warning her that an ill-timed invasion could destroy their chances, and that they could not afford the liberty of incaution.

The Present: 

On the second day of waiting, a small ship flying the banner of the house of Qun-Jin approached the island, closely pursued by two larger ships. The pursuers flew black banners which neither Britomart nor Wei recognized; their own warships ventured forth to protect the smaller boat, and the enemy ships quickly reversed their course and sailed away.

On the ship was none other than Lady Xiu herself, accompanied by a mere handful of sailors and soldiers, all out of uniform and all clearly showing the signs of the discomforts of life in the field. One of Wei's spies had managed to contact Xiu in one of their established points of refuge, and had brought her and her entourage to join the fleet. Xiu's report was dire indeed. 

Xiu began almost at once to urge the generals to set sail and retreat. Her spies, those very few who had not been caught and killed, informed her that the enemy's host was approaching--the biggest army she had ever seen--and that if their forces were caught on the open sea, not even the gods could save them. Britomart and Wei complied, and as their fleet prepared to sail south, Xiu told her tale.

Their nation was in ruins, and, she feared, irreparably so. One consortium of reckless nobles, for reasons which defied comprehension, had managed to invoke the "aid" of an infernal army. Throngs of demons and pit fiends appeared without warning, sweeping across the countryside and destroying castles, towns, and villages. They marched first on Madake, and though Queen Amara's guard fought tenaciously,
her army was hopelessly outmatched. Xiu believed that Queen Amara had been captured, and had no reason to believe that she was still alive.

The news struck both Britomart and Wei silent, but only furthered their desire to revenge themselves on those responsible. They asked for detailed information about the size and movements of the enemy force, and were appalled at Xiu's information. 

Resistance, Xiu informed them, had completely collapsed. The surviving elves were organized into petty city-states, each paying massive amounts of tribute to the infernal powers who traversed their territories at will. The armies of devils would destroy towns at the slightest provocation, so the population lived in utter fear and offered no resistance. The swamp-dwellers and the orcs were in the same situation; they regretted, no doubt, their part in overthrowing one master, since the next had proven so much more severe. 

As for the infernal army, Xiu assured them that it was invincible. It was led by dozens of arch-devils, and accompanied by throngs of fire-throwing demons and vicious pit fiends. Britomart and Wei's force, mighty as it was, would be annihilated. 

Britomart, Wei, and Xiu strategized long into the night. If the infernal army was as strong as Xiu claimed (and neither Britomart nor Wei had ever known her to be wrong when she said positively that she was right), then they could not hope to land their army anywhere nearby. And yet, both Britomart and Wei burned with a desire to march on Madake as soon as possible and discover the fate of their Queen. Even Wei had to admit, however, that they could not land anywhere near Madake and have time to assemble an army capable of defeating that of the enemy. A direct assault would surely fail.

Xiu informed them that the demonic armies had come from a passageway which had been opened on one of the islands on the underground sea. The passage, she believed, led deep into the earth to the kingdom of the devils, and, possibly, to Kur-Hazeth, the land of dreams. It was from their home that the devils drew their strength, and it was at their home that Britomart and Wei resolved to strike.

Neither Britomart nor Wei had any illusions of a campaign like that they had just waged. The homeland of the devils was not, they knew, a place where mortals could long survive, and the numbers of the devils, though not boundless, were immense. Still, if they could strike at the heart of the devils' own territory now, while their main army was occupied, they might make some headway and, hopefully, draw their field army away for the time. The attack would need to be a surprise, and it would need to be strong enough to require the attention of the devils' main force. It wouldn't be easy.

Meanwhile, they reasoned, once the devils' main force departed for their homeland, there would be a window of time in which another army could surprise whatever force was left as a garrison, and hopefully establish itself sufficiently to deal with the main force when it returned. Or, and perhaps this was more realistic, survive long enough to learn the fate of Queen Amara, and then retreat to the newly-conquered lands of the humans, if necessary.

All that remained was to determine who would lead the diversionary attack, and who would be left behind to liberate Madake. Knowing that the diversionary attack would almost certainly be suicidal, both commanders sought to undertake it themselves. The conflict was only settled when Britomart pulled rank; Queen Amara had made her first in command, and though the two generals usually consulted on their plans, Britomart used her authority to override Wei's protests.

Wei acquiesced, acceding to Britomart's right. She insisted, however, that Britomart take the majority of the fleet with her; it was, she argued, imperative that the attack be real and threatening, and Britomart would have little time to gather reinforcements. Reluctantly, Britomart accepted, though hesitant to leave her friend such a small force to begin the more important task of freeing their homeland.

Once their decisions had been made, the two wasted no time. That morning they gave orders to divide the fleet, and Britomart turned her ships north, toward the entrance to the underworld. Wei, sailing south, watched her ship until it was out of sight. 




--------------------------------------------

**what follows is an icky copyright notice

Copyright Notice:  All text, original character names, and story is copyrighted by Dan Heath, 1999, and may not be reproduced without my permission.  I hereby grant permission for this document and these maps to be freely distributed, provided that 1) they are not modified in any way and 2) this document is included with them and 3) they are distributed free of charge.  These maps may not be packaged for sale without my express permission.  

Heroes of Might and Magic III is (c) 1998 The 3DO Company.  All rights reserved.  Heroes of Might and 
Magic, New World Computing, 3DO, and their respective logos, are 
trademarks, registered trademarks or service marks of The 3DO Company in the U.S. 
and/or other countries. All other trademarks belong to their 
respective owners. New World Computing is a division of The 3DO 
Company. The 3DO Company expressly disclaims any obligation, 
responsibility and/or liability with respect to any content or accuracy 
of information contained in this text file.