Sleeper

By Scrowe
simon_crowe@excite.com

Players: 1 human, 7 computer
Size: Large
Difficulty: Expert
Special Victory Condition: Capture the Frozen Tower
Special Defeat Condition: Fail to win within one year

Background:
Welcome Anthule, as you know I am your father and king of the Elves of the Deep Woods. However today is the day I pass on my crown to you. But first I must tell you something of the world we inhabit. The lands of Arkania are steeped in history and important events. The most important of which is undoubtably the War of the Giants, when collosal Giants roamed the earth, ten times larger than the Giants seen today. It cost many lives for the Wizards to be victorious, and the aftermath of the war threatens the lands once again, a few thousand years later. However I am getting ahead of myself, you will be told all this in good time.

Races:
After the War of the Giants, different factions settled different parts of Arkania. 
Elves of the Deep Woods: We are the most noble and pure of the factions (this is the race you will take control of)
Wild Men of the Woods: Evil men who once wished to be like us Elves, but became corrupted by nature and now harbour a grudge against us.
Azzurians: Wizards who inhabit the frozen north-west, it is their foolishness that threatens us all.
Cassish: Dark underground dwellers that hate all surface folk.
Tainted: Their real name is unknown, even to us Elves, all we know is that they sold their souls to daemons and can never be salvaged.
Eerinians: Wild goblins who love to rampage and pillage.
Silur-Cha: War-like swamp dwellers.
Brakadias: Learned but solitary wizards.

Notes:
The land of Arkadia is full of events and secrets, not all of them important. However it is important to know that a pen and paper would come in handy, there are a few things that are important to take note of. You'll know what when you find them.
Sleeper is packed with events and I apologise for any spelling mistakes, it's very hard to spot them all.
If you find any problems or bugs please e-mail simon_crowe@excite.com, this is the pinnacle of my map making so far and I would like to iron out any problems. You would be greatly thanked for any correspondance as to whether you liked this style of level or not, what you thought were particularly good or bad points or if you did not understand any part.

Hints:
A secondary hero with the Scholar skill is useful.
Listen to the travelling scholars, some have important things to say that you should take note of.
Look before you leap...
Have fun!

