Shar's War

By Scrowe
simon_crowe@excite.com

Size: Large
Players: 1 human, 2 computer
Victory Conditions: Defeat 'Mordecia'
Loss Condition: Lose 'Shar'



IMPORTANT NOTES - MAKE SURE YOU READ!!

i) 'Shar's War' is the sequel to 'Hail to the King.' If you have not yet played HttK I very strongly recomend playig it before you have a go on SW. This is because a number of events in HttK are refered to in SW. Also the main character Shar, whom you control in SW, has much of his background explained in HttK. Also HttK is brilliant (even if I do say so myself)! You should be able to download HttK from wherever you downloaded Shar's War. Httk is a large singleplayer map. If you haven't played HttK, or would like a reminder of the plot I have included a synopsis at the end of this document.

ii) Shar's War (and Hail to the King) are quite different maps from most. Firstly both have much more in depth plots than others (NB: the separate text documents containing sections of the storyline that were found in HttK have gone. This is due to the fact that you can now fit any length of text in a single event using AB 'technology'). Note that there is an epilogue file - only read this once you have defeated Mordecia and completed the level, it rounds off a few things and finishes the story dramatically (and no peeking before you've completed the level).

iii) In Shar's War there is no building up towns, harvesting resources, buying heroes or recruiting creatures at the start of each week. Instead creatures are given to you at various intervals, minerals have little importance, you get one hero for the duration and towns come ready built with no creature generators. This is to help the narrative along. The problem that arises as a result is that occasionally monsters appear on the maps due to a new week beginning (Week of the Cyclops, Week of the Unicorn etc.). With the forces Shar has for most of the game he will never be able to defeat these new monsters (plus they look out of place within the story). Therefore if at the start of the week it is a 'week of.. a certain type of monster' immediately load the autosave. This should take you to the end of the last day so when you click the hourglass the 'week of...' will change. You may have to do this a few times until you get a week that will not create monsters (e.g. Week of the Mongoose, Week of the Condor etc.). It is annoying but necessary.

The level design also means a number of skills are pointless. These are: Diplomacy, Estates and Scholar (Logistics and Pathfinding have little point either, except allowing you to get through the level faster).

iv) Penthor. At one point in the game you will aquire an Enchanter, known as Penthor. He is an important part of the plot. However he may be killed during a battle, or you may wish to get rid of him to make room in your army for a new unit of troops (although this is not recommended). In these cases assume that Penthor was wounded too much to take part in future battles but is not yet dead, and so can ride with you and contribute to the future plot.


BACKGROUND:

(This is the background to Shar's War, not including the events from Hail to the King. That synopsis can be found later on. This background is displayed when you begin playing SW)

You are Shar, just under six years ago you were living in squalor in a run down town, wallowing in pity and harbouring thoughts of revenge against the Overlord that had killed your family. Then you met King Lyo, who had lost his throne to the Overlords and Necromancers. After a long and dangerous voyage you helped him overthrow the evil that had taken over.

The King made you his chief military advisor. For the first time in your life you really felt important, although you had to admit you weren't excactly busy since the land of Fanamor was all but rid of evil to fight. You lived well and took a beautiful wife, Gwenna. You had no troubles.

Then one day, about five years after you had helped King Lyo reclaim his throne, you were sent on a diplomatic mission to the land of Baydon. You travelled with Gwenna, and few guards, for you believed the land was at peace. However whilst travelling the road you were set upon by many rogues. You fought bravely but there were too many. You were knocked out.

You awoke tied up in a rogue's camp next to one of your guards, who told you all the others had been killed in the fight. "Gwenna?" you asked. He indicated over to the other side of the camp where you could see Gwenna tied. You hurled abuse at the thieves to release you, or at least your wife, but the men just laughed. 

Then another man walked from a cave to the camp, you guessed he was the leader of the thieves. He spat in your direction and then made his way to Gwenna. He laughed and turned her over to look at her face. Suddenly he stopped. 

"Gwen?" He asked.

"Aeron?" She replied.

A few minutes later and you had been untied and were given food and drink around the fire. Gwenna explained things to you, tellnig you things she had never admitted to before.

"When I was young I was a member of a groups of rogues." She told you. "Aeron was our leader, we were known as the Order of the Fifth Star."

You wife rolls up her sleeve to reveal the star tatoo you had asked her about many times, but she had always refused to answer. Aeron also rolls up his sleeve to show the same symbol.

"We were commited to fighting the corrupt Lord Modecia." Gwenna continues. "But to fund our underground force we had to become thieves. We never became powerful enough, sadly.... then I left." She pauses and stares deep into the fire. "I travelled to Fanamor, and a few years later I met you." She looks at you and smiles.

"So you two are..?" Aeron asks.

"Married." You reply.

Suddenly a rogue runs up panting into the camp and up to Aeron.

"Chief." He gasps. "Patrols are... everywhere... they've found us out... no escape."

"We must move quickly. Will you help us?" Aeron asks looking at you.

You glance at Gwenna, she mouths the word 'please.'

You nod your head.

"Thankyou." Aeron says. "We must make our way to the hideout, if the patrols haven't taken it already. Your tactical skills will be invaluable."

He turns to the camp, leaving you alone with Gwenna. She throws her arms around you.

"Thankyou." She whispers. 



SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES:

Thank you to play tester Alex Lewis

Please mail all your thoughts (on the map) to simon_crowe@excite.com. I would really like suggestions and comments. (for a sequel? oh yes)

Have fun!


TIPS:

Keep the Rogues, don't get rid of them for space. Till the end keeping the Dwarfs is useful too.

Expert level in at least one magic school is essential, two or more if possible.



HAIL TO THE KING - PlOT SYNOPSIS

(If you have never played Hail to the King before here is what you have missed - of course I recommend you go and download it and then play it before you attempt this level. Of course if you have played HttK you may well need reminding of what happened, so here goes.)

Hail to the King starred Lyo, King of Fanamor. He had been attacked and imprisoned in a dungeon, however along with a pitiful force he managed to escape. He made his way to a small town where he met a man called Shar, who told him of Gordar, an evil Warlock and master of the Dungeon Lords. Gordar had captured and tortured Shar's family a long time ago and Shar wanted revenge. Lyo and Shar chased Gordar across Fanamor, passing through the devestation the evil one left. However there were other matters on Lyo's mind.

For he had been betrayed. He had heard that the Necromancer had returned to Fanamor. The Necormancer, Nihar, had once devestated the lands but centuries ago had been sealed up behind a portal. Only one group knew how to open the gate, these were the King's own advisors, the Elemental Lords. At least one of them must have opened the portal and had Lyo kidnapped and sent to the Dungeon Lords.

So Lyo and Shar undertook a dangerous journey through Fananmor, always hot on the heels of Gordar. Lyo was tricked by the evil alliance of Necromancer and Warlock into killing one of his own loyal Elemental Lords. Eventually, just as Lyo and Shar were close to catching up with the Warlock, the evil one blocked his path behind him. However Lyo found a way through a magical portal.

This took him to The Retreat - the place where good souls go after they have died. These souls make up Angels. they told Lyo that the traitor was in fact Staldor, the Elemental Lord of Life. Nihar the Necromancer had been killed and Staldor had taken his place and killed the other Lords. Staldor was raising a mighty undead army, his allies the Dungeon Lords were slaughtering people to be raised. The problem for the Angels of The Retreat was that if a body is raised as undead, it's soul returns to the Plane of Limbo. The souls of The Retreat were therefore vanishing.

Lyo promised to help, and was set back into Fanamor so he could resume his chase. Finally, after gaining help from those that had fled Gordar and Staldor Lyo and Shar caught up with the Warlock and defeated his army. Shar himself painfully tortured Gordar, in The Retreat he had touched with the souls of his family and knew what horrors had befallen them in the dungeons.

Shar and Lyo fought through the ranks of undead that were arrayed against them. The green fields of Fanamor had been devestated, peasants killed and cities razed. Finally they entered Staldor's lair. The Necromancer forced Lyo to kill his own Elemental Lords, each of which had been ressurected from the undead. Their souls set free, Lyo and Shar then stormed Staldor's castle and defeated the Necromancer.

And so Shar was promoted to military commander and Fanamor was rebuilt. Lyo hoped that one day all evil in Fanamor would be wiped out.

THE END - Now go play Shar's War!