HEROES OF MIGHT AND MAGIC III

Map Name:	Thingäl-Tol
Version:        1,46
Date:           24 FEB 2001
Author:		Erik "Jymbob" Engstrøm
E-Mail Address:	ee14@hotmail.com
Playtester:     Dorte Grosen (dortegrosen@hotmail.com)

Map Type:	Restoration of Erathia
Players:	Multiplayer (4 H/C)
Size:		X-Large
Underground:	Yes
Difficulty:	Expert
Language:	English

Special win:	None
Special loss:	None

Disabled spells: Earthquake (bugged vs. Rampart), Dimension Door
(ruin the game), Fly (ruin the game), Town portal (too powerfull
- unbalanced for the lucky team), Visions (given to all),
Water Walk (unnecessary).

Disabled artifacts: Ambassador's sash (unnecessary), Amulet of the
Undertaker (unnecessary), Angel Wings (fly), Boots of Levitation
(Water Walk), Dead Man's Boots (unnecessary), Diplomat's Ring
(unnecessary), Head of Legion (bugged), Helm of Heavenly
Enlightenment (too powerfull-unbalanced), Pendant of Life/Death
(unnecessary), Sea Captain's Hat (given to all), Shackles of War
(given to all), Spellbinder's Hat (fly-DD), Statesman's Medal
(unnecessary), Tome of Air (fly-DD), Tome of Earth (Town Portal),
Tome af Water (too powerfull-unbalanced).
NOTE: Some of the really heavy Relic's only appears once.


Description: Welcome to the world of Thingäl-Tol. In this world you
have four teams to choose between, all specialized in two secondary
skills: Elfs: Logistic and offense, Humans: Leadership and armor,
Renegades: Logistic and luck, Dwarfs: Leadership and resistance


Author's notes: I have choosen to made this map in ROE, because a
lot of people still don't have AB or SOD.
This is a map for the spring 2001 "millennium" contest by Astralwizard.
This means that the map have to be a multiplayer-map and that only
one type of Heroes are allowed.
Multiplayer-map: Normally it takes a long time to play with 3 other
humans, and we all develop one really big hero and if he die the game
is pretty much over. To minimize the time, their are no long texts
here and you only have to control 4 heroes. And you "need" to maked
3 heroes to conquer the land, so even if you lose one of them you are
still in the game.
One type of Hero: I have choosen the 16 Ranger/Druids so each team
has 4 heroes. The AI has two extra heroes (Knight/Cleric) with 20
War Unicorns each, but they are weak heroes and the AI will often
only use them to transportation and so. They are disguised as
ranger/druids so they will not ruin the atmosphere in the game. Along
with some extra resourses it will however give a singel human player
some hard AI challenge. Although this is a multiplayer-map, I have
spend a lot of time optimizing the AI's chances for victory.
When it comes to secondary skills, I rank logistic and leadership as
equal, and I rank offense, armor, resistance and luck as equal.
That should explain (and balance) the skills given to each team.
As for each Hero's speciality, I have ranked it from the top (logistic,
armor, resistance) to the bottom (eagle eye), and then placed the
speciality as balanced as I could to each team. This mean that almost
none of the speciality correspond with the picture we are use to.
All my ranking is (of course) open for debat, but around 20 test-plays
shows that in this game the team-balance is pretty good.
Most of the artifacts and creatures are random, but due to the high
numbers of both, the teams should still be pretty balanced.

----------------------

Tactics: Note that all battles are do or die, you should allways be
equiped with the Shackles of War or the AI may flee even though the
hero can't be bought again.
You can play defense for a long time, but you will miss some great
resourses and events downunder.
Note that the Tome of Fire is available, that opens for the old
"Gold Dragon-Armageddon" tactic. On the other hand artifacts like
Orb of Inhibition and Recanters Cloak are allso available, so you
can destroy the armageddon tactic, and you can make a really great
might-hero and equip him/her with the orb or the cloak.
Test-plays shows that a hero can win many battles just with
the famous "150 Grand-elfs,mass-slow" tactic, you can still
win a lot by that, but I have guarded most of the
artifacts downunder with shooters or really quick monsters.

----------------

Light spoilers: There are no easy way to become the ruler of
Thingäl-Tol, but some things will make the road easier.
Consider only to build the resourse-silo in the 2. town, you
begin with. (maybe the AI will conquer it anyway).
You need a lot of ore, gems, crystal and gold, so get
those mines quickly. (especially the gem pond).
Go sailing a.s.a.p. (lumber/gold).
If you play at expert/impossible level: Take the gold
from most of the "500exp/1000g-chests".
Diplomacy-skill: Most of the monsters in Thingäl-Tol are
hostile or savage and will not join you, but just one week
of the Pegasi/Unicorns will make up for that. (Test-plays shows
that if there comes a "week of something", there is a very
good chance that it's one of the Ramparts creatures).
Don't lose your capital, you will never be able to build it
again (try to capture the others, even if it's just for one day).
