Map Name:       Unleashing the Bloodthirsty
Map Maker:      Andrew Tanzi
E-Mail Address: commando_avatar@libero.it

Map Type:       1H 7C
Language:       Mostly English, plus a little Italian, Spanish, Hindi, French
                & German

Special Win:	Transport Artifact
Special Loss:   Lose Hero (there is also a time limit of 15 months *hehe*)
Map Size:       Extra Large
Difficulty:     Impossible
Special other:  No taverns except one hidden away and accessible towards the
                end of the game; no marketplaces (and no crystal) until you
                enter the land of the Overlords. No big air spells until...
                you'll see! The AI may be very slow at the beginning. Please
                be patient, it's worth it!

                Please send your comments to my above-mentioned address.
                All feedback is more than welcome!

Play-Testers:   Isabella Lovello       * mine, all mine! =) *
                Victor-Angel Bolzoni   victor-angel.bolzoni@cfwb.be
                Chris Tiarht           Chrisat@brescia.edu
                Wen En Tang            p3dantic@yahoo.com.sg
            
Possible bugs:  Sometimes the AI disregards the tents and related border
                guards. Maybe there's a patch now, I don't know. Month of
                the Plague, Month of the... and Week of the... may occur
                several times. AI heroes may be impossible to blind or
                berzerk even though they don't have the proper artifacts.
                Maybe a patch could fix these things too...




HINTS/TIPS

- Always look for hidden surprises (behind castles, volcanoes, mountains)

- Abandon the Stronghold on day 1, week 3

- Always use the Chains of War! (once you get them)

- DO NOT venture beyond the one-way portal without the Helm of Heavenly
  Enlightment!

- The Maze of Torment can be conquered with three battles.

- Be careful using Town Portal when you retake your Stronghold! If you can't
  reach your ship and haven't got 'Summon Ship', all will be lost!

- Read the signpost in the Wyrm Swamp to complete the missions...

- Can't defeat the dragons guarding the Orb? Use your other two heroes to
  weaken them. And visit the three huts in the Sands of Blood!
