Heroes III Map Submission

Map Name:	Amaranth Soul Shift [Amaranth Soul Shift.h3m]
Map Maker:	Timothy Pulver
E-Mail Address:	fnord@kingston.net

Map Type:	Armageddon's Blade Single Player: 1 Human, 3 Computer
Map Size:	Medium, 2 levels
Map Difficulty:	Expert
Language:	English

Description: 	A powerful witch has hidden her soul in the body of a dwarf and now seeks to
                reclaim it. You have been charged with locating and slaying this vessel of 
                evil before she can reach him. There is no other option but to destroy this 
                dark spirit and save the world from her diabolical designs.

Special Win:	Defeat a Monster (Battle Dwarf)
Normal Win:	Disabled
Special Loss:	Lose the hero Cyra

Map-Testers:	Jonathan Winne.............quinnAM@att.net
		Daniela Stieh..............gwhenwyfar@h3trio.com
                Cattleman..................dawells@ozemail.com.au
                Barbara Becker.............beckerb@compuserve.com
                Chole......................chole@h3trio.com
                Keith Williams.............keith.williams@virgin.net
                Iewezt Khorgath............zenithgod@hotmail.com
                Jay Tittle.................jeddite@holly.colostate.edu
                Emmanuel Issaly............covenant@cybercable.fr
                Viktor Coyot Urban.........coyot@pinknet.cz
		Sir Whale (Sasho Bojinov)..sirwhale@iterra.net (Sasho Bojinov)


                This map has taken a long time to complete--almost 8 months in fact!
                The basic map design was done about 6 months ago but many minor changes 
                and additions have been made since then. Thank you to all the playtesters 
                who have given many useful comments and suggestions. All your ideas have 
                definitely improved the quality of the finished version. :-)


Map Tips:       Due to the nature of this map, it is highly advisable to save often. While
                there is no "right" way or "wrong" way to go, certain avenues of exploration
                too early in the game may bring about your destruction and require reloading
                from a saved game.

                One key to winning is to be decisive and not delay further explorations too
                long. The map's difficulty is somewhat deceptive in the early part of the 
                game.

                If you find the game too frustrating, you may wish to try the "easy" version.
                The easy version is very similar to the regular version but adds a few 
                elements (such as an extra town nearby), that make play easier. The easy
                version should also result in enemy heroes who aren't as strong early on.
                There are a few other minor bonuses and differences as well.

                It might be a good idea to write down any clues you get to the location of
                the grail. Finding it will help a lot, though it's not vital to your quest.

                And if you end up with a lot of artifacts later in the game, you may wish 
                to find an Altar of Sacrifice or else build the Artifact Merchant so you can
                sell the things you really have no use for.

                If you need a few more tips, look below. The hints below contain spoiler 
                information, so be warned.




SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!
SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!
SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!
SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!
SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!




o as soon as you can defeat the green dragons, quickly conquer the east part of the 
  island. The mages there are friendly to your cause.


o travel northwest around the end of month one. As long as you have several nagas and
  some genies by then (as well as lots of gremlins and some mages), you should have no
  trouble with the island of magic. The stack of 50 enchanters there will join you.


o travel northeast from your starting island and seek out the purple tent. Then search
  for the norther waterway and the lightning portal.


o when you finally locate the dwarf, watch out for nasty ambushes.

