Map Name:	Dracula[Dracula.h3m]
Map Maker:	Walt Huber
E-Mail Address:	datarush@attitude.com

Map Type:	3 H/C
Map Size:	Large
Language:	English

Description:	Three huge islands occupy most of this map. The Necropolis rules the
		largest, but the Rampart and Conflux have plenty of things to do to
		gain control of their lands. Each one has opportunities to gather 
		extra creatures to join their armies. All sides start with a hero 
		of some skill to lead their armies to victory.

Special Win:	NONE
Special Loss:	NONE
Special Other:	NONE

Narrative:	Dracula commands his undead brethren to putrify, or at least multiply
                and destroy the Conflux and Rampart! The Conflux is not impressed.
                After all, they were the heroes in Armageddon's Blade! The Rampart
                has had enough and is ready to put the Undead back in the grave and
                the Elements in a bottle.

Play-Tester:	dat16@csufresno.edu
		
Dracula additional info:

Unique matchups can make this map interesting to play. Can the Necropolis with hordes
of skeletons defeat the fast moving Conflux armies or the powerful creatures of the
Rampart? Can the Rampart build up quick enough to survive attacks and go on the
offensive? The Conflux should have extra speed but will require a skillful player to
lead its fair-to-middling creatures to victory.

The solo maps challenge a player to take on the two computer controlled towns that are
allied against you. Your enemies also start out with more gold and critical resources,
the border gates are weakly defended, and the quest guards have been removed
from their areas.


Spoilers

>
>
>
>
>
>

If you can't get the 7th level creature building on week one for any of the towns,
you should quit playing HOMM3!

Each area has 2-3 quests to complete. The completion of one will open up an area
to explore, while another will award an orb of your hero's specialty to increase
their power when casting air, water or earth spells.

All three areas have an event at the border gate or entrance to the creature groups.

All three areas have a significant creature that it can recruit, and there is a group
of these creatures in each area that will join.

Buy a boat. There's lots of goodies at sea.