Land of the Fallen Gods
By: White Raven	e-mail: wraven@milehigh.net
Single player map for Heroes of Might and Magic III ( HOMMIII )
Map size: Large (108x108)
Player side: Red
Computer players: 2 teams of 2.
Time limit: None
Special victory goals: None
Special defeat goals: None

Distribute and edit freely, with the exception of comercial editions.
Just give me credit and include this file with every copy.


	For nearly a hundred years the forces of good and evil warred across 
the breadth of the realm. It was only eighteen years ago that the mighty 
armies of valor sacrificed themselves in an ultimate battle to rid the land of 
evil powers for ever. Since that time, pitiful remnants of these once mighty 
kingdoms have struggled to remain whole in the chaos. Some failed.
	You have risen to power over one of five remaining kingdoms. It is 
your hope to unite the land under your banner and usher in a period of new 
peace. Needless to say, the other remaining kingdoms, as well as the 
unclaimed remnants of past nations, object to your plans. The land has 
returned to barbarism, it's time to show that the paragons of the past have not 
died for naught.
	You may have a way of making your job easier though. As your 
power has grown, so too have the rumors of a small enclave of past heroes 
who survived the final battle so many years ago. If you can locate them and 
convince them to follow you, you can quickly gain power and crush your 
enemies. Alas, you know not where they reside or how to find them.
	Conquer the land and seek the Land of the Fallen Gods.


Notes:
At one time, this map was going to include co-op options. If you wish, 
a few moments of editing the "map specifications" with the map editor can 
return this feature. Green and Orange are teamed now, as are Blue and Tan. 
Red is alone. You may want to keep in mind that Orange is a Dungeon 
player and starts underground. I do not however claim the map has any kind 
of balance if played this way. (But it might, I haven't a clue)
	Any and all comments are welcomed, from high praise to derision, 
anything from typos to balance considerations. I am not opposed to re-
issuing this map if enough changes are made. Again, my e-mail is 
wraven@milehigh.net . I also, for the time being, will keep my eye on the 3do 
HOMMIII board. If you want to try and get my attention there, I'm known as 
White Raven.
	I'd like to add my two cents regarding the high quality of HOMMIII 
and the steady improvement of this wonderful franchise. I'd like to thank 
New World Computing and 3do for this wonderful game.
As an odd side-note, this series is tied for first place in my mind with 
(the first two) X-COM for best all time games. Even though they cover very 
different environments, the mix of strategy and tactics is surprisingly 
similar. If any of you HOMM fans out there have never played X-COM: 
UFO Defense, I highly recommend it. (Skip X-COM Apocalypse and any of 
the non strategy titles they are coming out with though. It's a dying franchise 
?)
