Heroes III Map Submission

Map Name:         Neighbors v2.1 (Neighbors V21.h3m, neighbors21.zip)
Map Version:      Version 2.1
Map Maker:        Timothy Pulver
E-Mail Address:   fnord@telus.net

Map Type:	  Multiplayer: Two Humans Recommended (AI will not play positions as well)
Heroes Version:   The Shadow of Death 3.2
Map Size:	  Small, 2 levels
Map Difficulty:   Hard (Due to AI resource bonuses. Also a challenging map for 2 human players.)
Language:         English

Description:      Neighbors are annoying, damned annoying. Especially when they live right next 
                  door and you have absolutely nothing in common with them. Well maybe that's 
                  not true--you're both searching for that ultimate legendary artifact, The
                  Grail, and finding it will ensure their destruction...

Special Win:      Build the Grail structure in any town.
Special Loss:     None
Standard Win:     You may defeat your opponent to win instead of finding the Grail.


Version Changes:  The previous (original) version of Neighbors found on most web sites
                  also came with Neighbors-Again which was designed for replaying the game.
                  In version 2.1, there's only one map, used for first-time and for replay.

                  This revision is mostly an attempt to fine-tune the balance but there are
                  several other additions and changes as well.

                  Other changes include (but are not limited to):
                  1) A little more gold is available in stacks in or near the starting area.
                  2) Additional learning stones have been added.
                  3) The external level 2 dwellings have been replaced with level 1 dwellings.
                  4) A couple of artifacts "hidden" in events have been relocated.
                  5) The Enchanter/Grail area has been visually remodelled.
                  6) The bordergate area has been remodelled and the borderguard on the
                     Rampart side has been removed, making the two sides a little more
                     "symetrical".
                  7) The bordergate guards have been changed.
                  8) The number of Hill Fort guards (earth elementals) have been increased.
                  9) Various other monster stack sizes have been altered slightly.
                 10) A Witch Hut has been added in each starting area.
                 11) A Peasant Hovel has been added next to the stack of peasants.
                 12) A derelict ship, extra shipwreck survivor and sea chest have been added
                     to each side's water area.


Additional Notes: a) Find your way UNDERGROUND ASAP. It will help you to win!
                  b) One player plays Rampart and the other plays Necropolis.
                  c) Only Druid and Ranger heroes are available to the Rampart and only
                     Death Knights and Necromancers are available to the Necropolis.
                  d) All heroes start with one artifact (treasure or minor) but hiring all
                     heroes for their artifacts will NOT give you a combination artifact. :-)
                  e) You will NOT find the following movement spells in your mage guild:
                     DIMENSION DOOR, FLY, SUMMON BOAT, WATER WALK.
                  f) It may be possible to create a couple of the combination artifacts in the
                     game if you get lucky, but it's quite unlikely, so definitely do not count
                     on it.
                  g) There are a few custom rumours in the Tavern, so it may be useful to check
                     each week.


Map-Testers:      Rasputin....................RERoellig@aol.com
                  Sabrina.....................(not known)
                  Fizbin the Magniloquent.....Chrisat@brescia.edu
                  Marcus the Red..............marcus_the_red@hotmail.com
                  Quinn the Ancient Mariner...QuinnAM@att.net
                  Morning Glory...............morning_glory@att.net
                  Lomax (Pawel Mysliwiec).....pmysliwi@info.fundp.ac.be
                  Tomasz Mysliwiec............no email
                  Viktor Coyot Urban..........coyot@pinknet.cz
                  John DiFool.................jdifool@earthlink.net
                  James Vickery...............JVick007@aol.com
                  Yvette......................yvette@axion.net
                  Malta (Martin Nielsen)......VallettaFC@hotmail.com
                  Blackhawk...................rwei@fa.adm.ohio-state.edu
                  Robin.......................robinlpn@up2me.com
                  Charles E. Watkins..........charleswatkins@austin.rr.com


                  Like most of the maps I've made so far, this map was started many months ago
                  and then not worked on for awhile. Eventually I returned to it and worked out
                  a lot more details, finishing the map and adding an extensive story element.

                  Finally, after much playtesting, the map is complete. I hope you'll all enjoy
                  it, and find it to be a very fun and balanced map for both League matches and
                  for casual 2-player games.

                  I'd like to take a moment to thank all those who helped playtest and offered
                  their comments and suggestions. As always, without playtesters, my maps 
                  wouldn't be half as good as they are with them. Great job, people! :-)

                  And finally, I would like to thank Rasputin, Marcus the Red and Sabrina for 
                  their help with testing and providing comments on the revised version.

 