 500 years ago the land of Devon was ruled by the Unicorn Queen. The fields
were prosperous, various mines that speckled countryside yeilded enormous 
amounts of valuable resources, everyone was happy. 
 Almost everyone.
 A small family of wizards, headed by Jolias, were greedy. Jolias had a plan 
to cause friction between the upper and lower kingdoms. If he could cause a 
war between the two kingdoms it would be quite easy to defeat what was left 
over with his own powerful forces. 
 Since greed was his own vice he decided to use it to his advantage. Thinking
about the resources he himself coveted, he started rumors in the lower kingdom
that the upper kingdom was far richer than the lower kingdom. He spread about
propaganda that the Unicorn Queen gave the upper kingdom special privilages
that the lower kingdom could only dream about. That they lived in houses of
gold and ate exotic foods and drank the sweetest wines.
 His most vilest of plots was discovered...but it was too late. During the
Spring Equinox Celebration, an event which mingles denizens of the upper and
lower kingdoms together in drunken festivities, Jolias planned to murder the
Unicorn Queen and frame a small group of protestors from the lower 
kingdom. Thus, would completely destroy the already crumbling friendship 
between the two lands. 
 Everything was going according to Jolias' plan. During the festivities 
several fights broke out. The lower kingdom accusing the upper kingdom of
"special priveleges". Of course the upper kingdom had no idea what they were
being accused of and this only angered the lower kingdom even more. 
 Then, when the death of the Unicorn Queen occured, any hope for resolution 
died with her. Yes, Jolias did succeed with his plan to kill the Unicorn 
Queen, his own quiet form was found next to her body. 
 When he was able to regain consciousness a truth spell was cast on him 
to force him to give the details of what happened in the last few minutes of
their beloved queen's life. A scribe was brought in to record the startling 
piece of history:
 "I transformed myself into a cat and jumped through the window to her 
chambers. Once inside, I transformed back and hid in the curtains. When she
returned from the parade to change for the Spring Ball I leapt out from behind
the curtain and put my hand over her mouth to keep her from screaming. 
 "Then. I'm not really sure what happened next, but standing in my arms was 
the most beautiful unicorn I have ever seen! I had never realized there
was more to her title of Unicorn Queen than her adoration of the silly beasts.
 "With a flip of her head, she was out of my grasp and jabbing her horn at my
heart. I'm sure she could have killed me then, but she just went on poking me.
I think it was almost a game to her. Like a cat plays with a mouse...I knew 
that if I were going to survive this I was going to have to think of something
fast! 
 "Shortly, she had me backed into a corner. I knew my spells would be useless 
against her aura of magic resistance, I could feel how strong it was! By this
time she was beginning to grow weary of the game. The jabs were getting harder
and starting to pierce my skin when I reached for the only thing I had. The 
jewelled hilt of the silver knife felt cold as my fingers curled around it. 
With all my strength I tried to twist away from her but at the same time she
impaled me. I felt her horn pass through my shoulder like it was melted 
butter. I used what was left of my momentum from twisting to drive the blade
of my dagger into her throat.
 "We both fell at the same time. Her hot blood flowing over my hand with the 
dagger still burried in her throat. The next thing I knew, I was here." 
 The elders of both kingdoms were in shock over this startling news. The death
of the queen was bad enough, but they also quickly learned Jolias and his 
family was responsible for the lies being spread around. With Jolias 
incompacitated, the weaker wizards were easily captured and restrained for 
the trial that would occur when Jolias was able.  
 Even though they knew who was responsible for spreading the lies, it did very
little toward repairing the damage caused by the act. It sounded just
plausable enough to cause greed to take over. Small bands of denizens from the
lower kingdom began to invade the upper kingdom.
 Without the presence of the Unicorn Queen to calm the naturally feral 
instincts of the dungeon dwellers, their murderous attacts soon became a 
frequent occurance in the often short lives of the upper kingdom's 
inhabitants. 
 And while all of this was happening, the wizard was growing stronger with 
each day that passed. This worried the elders more than the fighting between 
the two kingdoms. They had to figure out what to do with the treacherous 
family before Jolias was strong enough to stop them. They realized that even 
in his weakened state, it would be impossible for them to kill him. (Secretly,
they didn't believe the Unicorn Queen could have killed him either, but they
liked that Jolias believed she could.)
 It was believed that Jolias was immortal. If not immortal then surely not 
living any normal life pattern. Even the elders couldn't remember a time 
without Jolias and his family. It would require someone of equal or greater
strength to defeat Jolias, and so far no one matched that description.
 So it was decided that the wizards would be baracaded in their homes by 
gates. Only those with the key may pass through these gates and guards were
set to keep the keys safe.
 They were then free to war with each other, safe in the knowledge
that the wizards wouldn't be able to "pick up the pieces". The two kingdoms
bided their time with petty squabbles and an occasional all out war, waiting
for a Hero with enough power to destroy the ever strengthening wizards.
 A several centuries old myth about a powerful wizard being divided up into 
an unknown number of magic boxes and scattered across the two kingdoms was the
subject of many conversations.
 It was said that if one were to open one of the boxes and defeat the 
guardians inside, that person would gain part of the Primary Skills of the 
wizard. If one were to open another of the boxes and defeat those guardians, 
then that person would gain even more Primary Skills. And on until the last 
box were opened. 
 The myth goes on to say that if all of the boxes are opened a wizard more 
powerful than any ever known will be unleashed upon the world.
 Although a few of the magic boxes have been found, none have been opened. The
fear of a wizard more powerful than Jolias being accidentally released dampens 
any desire to reap the benefits of the power one might gain...if he could 
defeat the guardians.
 The guardians were said to consist of the most powerful creatures in all of 
Devon. To defeat an army of these creatures, the Hero would have to be 
quite powerful already. If that Hero weren't strong enough to defeat them,
he/she wouldn't get a second chance.                           
 500 years later, the wizards are still growing stronger. Their magic ice and
snow push at the old gates testing their strength for any signs of weakeness,
but luckily the gates stand up to the abuse...For now, but how long until
Jolias becomes strong enough break down the barriers? Or until some ignorant
fool accidentally (or intentionally if blinded by the wizards promises of 
great wealth and power) gains access to the key and releases the wizards.
