The Legacy of Qun-Jin Episode IV:  Retribution

Map Name:	The Legacy of Qun-Jin IV (Legacy_of_Qun-Jin_4.h3m)
Map Maker:	Dan Heath
E-Mail Address:	danh@sapros.com

Map Type:	Singleplayer, 1 Human Only, 7 Computer Only
Language:	English
Map Size:	Medium, 2 Levels
Difficulty:	Expert

Description:	Your sister general Britomart has sailed for the underworld to draw off the infernal army.  Her sacrifice has earned you a few precious weeks to retake your homeland, free Queen Amara (if she still lives), and prepare for the final confrontation with the devils.  Use your time wisely.

Special Win:	None
Special Loss:	Lose Hero (Wei)

Designer's Notes:
1.  If this is your first introduction to the Legacy of Qun-Jin series, the story won't make much sense, and the area will be unfamiliar.  See the website (www.sapros.com/maps) for the story so far.  The Episode III story is particularly relevant.  The geography will be more meaningful (and comprehensible) if you've played Episode I.
2.  Some of the in-game text windows are just story, but others are important, so don't just ignore them.  You might want to write a thing or two down, especially locations of things.
3.  The spells "Fly" and "Dimension Door" have been blacked out of all the Mage Guilds because they can break the plot.  I mention this because I don't want you to waste time building Mage Guilds everywhere trying to get them.  "Town Portal" has been blocked out of every city but Nova Madake because if the bad guy gets it, he can break the plot.  I have made provisions for you to have access to the spell, however... You'll see what I mean.
4.  There are a few ways you could cheat (not too severely) when playing this map for a second time.  I encourage you not to--don't act on info until you've acquired it legitimately.
5.  The red keymaster's tent is accessibly only to the enemy.  Just wait; he'll open it up when he's ready.  You concentrate on making sure you are ready for him.
6.  There are a number of enemy characters in this level--mostly traitorous lords from the old elven empire.  You'll hear something about each of them in the in-game text.  I couldn't figure out a way to gracefully explain which color went with which enemy, so here is a key to their names and color affiliations, in case you are curious which color belongs to which traitor:

NAME				COLOR	BIO
Bruncrus Xth			Red	Perpetrated the Massacre at Caer Byrne
Cyrgeth				Red	Besieged, captured, and sacked Madake
	(Red is the color of the main demonic army)
Sir Rogecind the Parricide	Pink	Captured Caelcaren
Idgod Nas			Pink	Mercenary ally of Sir Rogecind; Conquered Fynnel
Lord Qains			Teal	Created undead army from slaughtered citizens of Hare March
Shidara				Blue	Upstart beastmistress
Lord Theor			Orange	Helped overthrow the Queen; Rules Kitara
Lord Ceries			Purple	Purchased Pierneth from the devils
Iskavetch Kr			Tan	Orcish matriarch; Claims all orcish cities as her own


Play-Testers:	Stefan Bjelkfelt (S.Bjelkfelt@hem.utfors.se)
		Brent Thomas (BrentMT09@aol.com)
		zgod zgod (zenithgod@hotmail.com)
		Jagan (jagan@powersurfr.com)
		yung (raven@mars.ark.com)
		Florian Trombach (trombacf@uni-bremen.de)

A thousand thanks to the playtesters for their hard work testing this level.

Web site:
Please see the Legacy of Qun-Jin web site at http://www.sapros.com/maps/index.html for news, updates, and information about the other maps in this campaign.

--------------------------------------------

**what follows is an icky copyright notice

Copyright Notice:  All text, original character names, and story is copyrighted by Dan Heath, 1999, and may not be reproduced without my permission.  I hereby grant permission for this document and these maps to be freely distributed, provided that 1) they are not modified in any way and 2) this document is included with them and 3) they are distributed free of charge.  These maps may not be packaged for sale without my express permission.  Heroes of Might and Magic is copyrighted by New World Computing, 1996.  