A Synopsis of:

{Traemask the Fool, Episode One:}
{The Outpost of Progress}

The world of men, Terraminsc, has, among others, two empires named Floagen and Eilia.  At the present they are at war.

The Outpost of Progress begins with Sedran von Patre, a captain in the Eilian navy, a young officer with a swift sword and an honorable heart.  He has his own ship, and finds himself escorting the high admiral of the navy, Jarrid Saed, to an island in the middle of nowhere.  Sedran is concerned, but his querries are met with stony looks.  He follows his orders because he must, but he is not happy about it.

When they arrive at their unknown destination, they find the Eilian port/outpost to be burned to the ground, with no trace of survivors except one, a soldier named Tomas, who implores you to follow him because he has wounded friends.  Foolishly, Saed agrees and to your horror, Saed and his army is ambushed by legions of walking corpses.  You escape with your life.

Yet, you decide not to flee, as you desire to find out why you came here and why thousands of your countrymen have just been butchered.

Thus begins a journey across a large island, where you meet the king of the Ogres, Murak Mol, a goblin named Duk, and an ancient Wizard who comes to reveal himself as the legendary Verianus, the same Verianus who disposed of Calaxion's evil sword.  You befriend Murak Mol's son, the heir, named Mu Mol, who joins your army out of concern for his future wife, who has been kidnapped by a race of strange creatures that attacks the ogre strongholds by night, and whose origins are unknown.

Through a series of events, you begin to learn why Saed was here.  Apparently, months previously, a general named Kayerts and his underling, Carlier, were sent to the island on some mission that was vital to winning the war against Floagen.  They visited the ogre villages and eventually made their way into the interior of the island -- a dense jungle ruled by barbarians and vile creatures -- on some secret errand.  Shortly after their departure for the interior, the strange creatures began appearing. 

Nearly simultaneously, you play the part of Andrea Mead, the third in command under Kayerts.  Stationed at the Outpost of Progress, a small military fort deep in the Interior, she knows nothing of Kayerts' mission.  She only knows that shortly after arriving at Progress, Kayerts and Carlier departed on their own, bidding Andrea to stay and hold the outpost until they returned.  They never did.

A couple of weeks after they departed, strange creatures arrived and began attacking her outposts up and down the river.  The first episode follows Andrea's attempts to fight against the hordes of strange lizard-creatures, and to quell the voices of madness that have now begun to plague her mind.  Desperate for reinforcements, she sends her lieutenant, Roland Swift, whom she secretly loves, to the Exterior, where he eventually meets with Sedran.

Her part culminates in a battle with the lord of the lizard creatures, a dark knight who she eventually finds, to her horror, is none other than Kayerts himself.  Yet, he is not himself, and barely recognizes her!  The battle is long and hard, but she eventually wins, though she is more confused than ever.

The Outpost of Progress ends with a meeting between Sedran and Andrea Mead underground at the gates to Antamixylion.  Through various clues, Verianus is able to piece together that the cause of much of the problems that have erupted over the last several weeks can only be that the current World Tree, Traemaskeelix, has somehow fallen ill.  And it is likely that Kayerts and Carlier are somehow responsible.  The mystery remains, however: what did Kayerts and Carlier do to bring about this disaster, and why?  

During Sedran's meeting with Andrea, Andrea asks Sedran to slay her, because the voices are driving her mad.  Reluctantly, Sedran does so, although her love, Roland, does not yet know.  Sedran then proceeds to the gates of Antamixylion, where he bids his temporary farewells to his ogre allies, promising to look into the disappearance of Mu Mol's future wife.  Together with Verianus, he enters the portal and arrives in Antamixylion, hoping to find answers instead of more questions.