
Name - Z'xey
Castle - Devil's Grin
Alignment - Inferno
Location of Castle - North-west
Strengths - Fierce magic user. Expert in Sorcery, Fire magic, and has expert wisdom. His Armageddon proves to be a powerful weapon.
Biography - Z'xey never much believed in equality. His constant drive for greatness has proven to be a vital tool for his being a powerful and respected Heretic. He is feared by his opponents and by his generals. His Armageddon spell spares neither his opponents nor his troops. It is only his Efreets and his Fire Elementals that escape his divine wrath.

----------------------------------

Name - The Horn
Castle - Deep Canyon
Alignment - Barbarian
Location of Castle - South-west
Strengths - No one can match his Attack skill. Because of his expert Ballistics, his castle raids are greatly feared. His Expert Artillery and Expert Offense also help his raids.
Biography - The Horn is a merciless, yet honorable Barbarian. None of his followers dare to defy his orders. Rumour has it that the club he holds was given to him by the greatest Barbarian hero - Crag Hack Of Erathia. 

----------------------------------

Name - To'to
Castle - Elfistine
Alignment - Rampart
Location of Castle - North-East
Strengths - Be careful with your magic around To'to. He has a very high magical resistance! Elve's under his control get better shots, because of his Expert Archery. Toto's Expert Luck also plays a part in the battles.
Biography - To'to always believed that if one is able to cast magic, then surely one is able to resist it. His life's quest has been to become as immune to magic as a Black Dragon. 

----------------------------------

Name - Seelomyre
Castle - Barion
Alignment - Tower
Location of Castle - South-East
Strengths - Expert Air magic. Expert Sorcery. Expert Wisdom. And a Chain-Lightning to round off his skills. The complete recipe for an enemy to fear.
Biography - Seelomyre is a fearsome genie. He casts Chain-Lighting with ease, and the force of its power never leaves an enemy troop standing. Legend speaks of a link between Seelomyre and another powerful genie....

----------------------------------